[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Robert Grant,
and this is Code X.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you ever asked
yourself the question
that what you
consider to be reality
might actually be a
simulation of mind?
Have you further considered
that simulation of mind
might have a purpose, a
veritable game for you
to learn to expand awareness
and consciousness in new ways
and to question the
very foundation of what
it means to be human?
This season on
Code X, we're going
to go through the world that was
left to us encrypted by Metatron
and his many incarnations.
We are going to
investigate how Metatron,
that great architect of
this universal simulation,
is now being revealed to us.
Metatron has left us a cipher.
We are going to investigate
all of the works of Leonardo da
Vinci.
We'll see how all
of these paintings
actually overlay and
interweave into one another
as a mosaic of a larger,
grander encryption.
You're going to learn some of
the great mysteries about Giza
Plateau and the musical
awareness behind it,
as well as its impact on time
and the great calendar that
is embedded within the
King's Chamber itself.
Welcome to the King's Chamber
of the Great Pyramid of Giza.
Join me on this quest
to find and remember
who we are at this
precipice of entering
into a new age, the
Age of Aquarius.
Some believe perception
defines our reality.
But is there a deeper
story about perception?
Is it true that
we don't actually
perceive the world as it is,
we perceive it as we are?
If you go to a courtroom and
see a standard misdemeanor case,
very often you'll hear a story
from an eyewitness account.
When there are more
than one eyewitness,
very often you'll
note that there
are multiple different
stories of what occurred.
In fact, in one
case recently, there
were over 30 eyewitnesses
and 30 entirely
different eyewitness
accounts of what transpired
with a simple theft of a purse.
How is it that one person
can perceive one thing
and be at the exact
same scene of the crime
as another person who sees
something entirely differently?
Well, the answer is
actually quite simple.
It is because we cannot separate
our own conditioning biases from
our perception of reality.
I don't believe that the
world is a difficult place
because people don't
like each other.
I believe the world can
be a very difficult place
because people don't
like themselves.
The cognitive biases that
we have about ourselves
inform our reality because
the universe around us
can be said to be a reflection
or a projection of what's
inside of each one of us,
a veritable you-inverse
of experience.
The more you give to
that world around you,
the more the world will
likewise give back.
It's as if it's a mirror of
consciousness, a karmic mirror,
if you will.
A mirror where I'm
giving a gift to someone,
and in the karmic
mirror the gift
is given back to
me in like fashion.
This karmic mirror
has the ability
to play with us, to make
sure that, in this illusion,
we get the maximum
benefit from the learning.
And what would an
experience be if we
didn't believe it was real?
This is why we come to
this zone of perception
to learn that what we accumulate
and believe to be facts
might actually simply be facets
of a larger prism of a deeper,
more significant truth.
That the only way to
capture higher wisdom
is to accumulate all possible
subjective perspectives
of reality.
In this episode,
we're going to learn
how perception is
our reality, how
to deal with that, to become
aware that it is informing
our decisions and
our emotional states,
and how to take that knowledge
and transform our living
and life experience.
One of the people
that was so focused
on this art of dynamically
playing with perception
was Leonardo da Vinci, the
polymath from the Renaissance,
who used perspective
artwork in order
to trick the eye into believing
that two dimensional objects
on a flat plane could be
perceived in a third, fourth,
or higher dimension.
Every time there's been a
Renaissance in human history,
it has always been
accompanied with a new way
of thought, a new way to
perceive the world around us.
The Renaissance scholars and
polymaths became very adept
because in 1451, thousands
of hermetic texts
were released from the Vatican
libraries to the general public
and became the foundational
basis for Rosicrucian movement,
of which Leonardo
da Vinci eventually
became a leader within.
But not only Leonardo.
Albrecht Dürer and several
other polymaths and scholars.
Michelangelo, those
people that seemed somehow
to push the boundary
on human experience,
to go beyond the
limitations that we all
tend to perceive of ourselves.
And maybe they
understood the notion
that the only real obstacles
that we experience in this world
are the ones that we
persistently allow ourselves
to attach to and believe in.
The two words that are the
most difficult words for us
all to integrate and
fully understand--
to know thyself.
In this world of perception
and perspective drawing,
one can easily see how an
illusion, a trick of the eye,
can inform different outcomes,
different perceptions.
And maybe the way to
change our perception
is as simple as
seeing it differently.
Maybe, as Gandhi
puts it to us, we
can all be the change we
want to see in the world.
The old axiom may not apply
anymore in this context
that seeing is believing.
Maybe believing is seeing.
And Leonardo da
Vinci is someone who
was able to trick our mind's eye
so easily using the technique
that we call linear perspective
drawing in illustration.
He used it so adeptly that
during the Renaissance period,
he and other
polymaths and scholars
were able to use perspective
drawing to expand consciousness,
to see things that a simple,
flat piece of paper or canvas
should not have
been able to depict.
And yet we see it in
a higher dimension.
One of the most important
aspects of our perception
is what we call the
vanishing point.
The vanishing point
is when you're
making a perspective
drawing, you pick a point off
in the horizon.
We don't necessarily see that
point as a tangible object,
but it is the central focus
of our vision and our distance
vision and sight.
From that, all
angles of perception
basically cascade back to the
viewer, to the lens of the eye.
Leonardo da Vinci was
possibly the first person
to have actually
invented what we know
of today as virtual reality.
Leonardo was an
expert in optics,
and he was an expert in
perspective illustrations.
In fact, every time
humanity has gone
through an upshift
in consciousness,
it has always been accompanied
by perspective illustration.
It helps humanity to expand
to a higher level of awareness
by expanding its perception.
Its perception is
derivable directly
from what it believes it's
seeing in front of it.
Each of us do this
every day, and we're
not even conscious of
the fact that we do this.
But when we look off
into the distance,
we are creating a vanishing
point that our lens of our eye
is focused on.
Now, as we look at
that perception,
you could say that
it creates for us
a pyramidal shape in our
vision and that pyramidal shape
with its point or apex being
off in the distance in what we
call this vanishing point.
Now at the lens of the eye,
the lens takes in this data
and information, just as
we see in this depiction--
this beautiful illustration
by Leonardo da Vinci himself--
and takes that image
and projects it
into the back of our retina,
forming another inverted pyramid
that finds its point at
the retinal receptors
around the macula and fovea
in the back of the eye
that we can focus on.
So you literally now have
an octahedral structure.
Its slope angle is adjusting
based on its distance
and also based on the focal
point in the back of your eye.
These are the
foundational principles
of optics and engineering
related to those optics.
Another example of Leonardo's
use of perspective technique is
found in The
Adoration of the Magi,
a painting that was commissioned
by a chapel in the early 1480s
that many believed was never
finished because of the way that
it was painted.
We can see the use of
perspective drawing here.
And by connecting the
stairs in the background
to each other as a
point line reference,
we can find the vanishing
point off in the distance.
But one of the things that
we notice in this painting
immediately are the columns
that are in the background
above the staircases.
Those columns are a very
specific type of column,
for they represent the exact
columns that we find today
in Edfu and Esna, Egypt, as
well as the old temple that
was located in Heliopolis,
also known as On, or Aon.
So The Adoration of the Magi is
telling the story of the three
kings who came from the East to
give gifts to Jesus following
his birth in the manger.
In the left, we see the
remains of an Egyptian temple.
But how could they
all be flanked
by Roman soldiers,
Greek soldiers that
are sitting on the
staircase and an elephant
far in the background?
How is it that all
of these things
are happening at the
same moment in time?
As we look at Mary--
the Virgin Mary sitting with
her newborn child, Jesus--
we see the background
includes a sycamore
tree, a prominent symbology
of Mary, the mother of Jesus,
as well as a palm tree
in the background.
There's a place
today in Heliopolis
that represents the
place of the Virgin Mary
that matches very closely to
this depiction that we see.
Why would Leonardo have
painted this painting
in such a way and to have
depicted so many people
at the scene of The
Adoration of the Magi
when that was not
the way that it
was described in the Book of
Luke, Matthew, Mark or John?
In Leonardo's depiction, we can
see all these different time
dimensions.
Does this mean to
say that Leonardo
was able to perceive more
expanded dimensions of time?
Now, we all know Leonardo
is very famous for having
seen forward hundreds of years.
Some of his inventions are
still only being made today.
The Mars Lander had design
elements related to it,
as well as the
Venus Lander that's
actually taken on the
name of Leonardo da Vinci.
These monitoring devices include
very advanced technologies,
such as optical
coherence tomography,
to be able to see through
planetary structures
deep into their core.
These technologies in some ways
had some of their major design
elements coming from
Leonardo himself,
a man who died more
than 500 years ago.
A vanishing point is
a fundamental aspect
of our perception.
We all use vanishing points
in our day-to-day perception.
We look into the
distance, and our eyes
are focused on something
far off in the distance.
All of that can be
depicted in illustration
using perspective drawing
techniques and geometry.
This higher order
aspect of geometry
can even be found inside
of Metatron's cube, where
we can see very clearly
every geometric form that
exists in regular form.
The tetrahedron, the cube, the
octahedron, the dodecahedron
and the icosahedron and
the icosidodecahedron all
can be found with the
simple line intersections
inherent to Metatron's cube.
In fact, every
structure known to man
in lower and higher
dimension can be found inside
of this simple 6 and 12 point
perspective drawing technique.
Now, this becomes such
a powerful way for us
to perceive the
universe around us
when we recognize
that all that we
call higher dimension
and perspective
can be found in a flat plane.
The ultimate framework
for this illusion of maya,
this simulation of mind,
is Metatron's cube.
This is one of the
marvels of geometry.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The lines of
Metatron's cube, which
form off of this simple
structure that we often refer to
as the Seal of Solomon,
two opposing triangles
representing masculine
and feminine energies.
The triangle pointing
upward representing fire,
and the triangle pointing
downward representing water.
These depicting triangles
through their own intersections
can define all the lines and
the circles of Metatron's cube.
This enables us to construct
anything in the universe
and to put it in three
dimensional perception.
As you can see here, this
drawing of an icosidodecahedron
embedded within this
cube of Metatron,
where our eyes can
be shifted to see it
either as a two dimensional
object or a three
dimensional object.
What it requires is
your shift in mentality
to perceive it as a three
dimensional object or a two
dimensional object.
It becomes a choice point.
Metatron's cube is a
divine representation
of the architecture of our
universal matrix of mind.
If everything can be depicted
inside this one cubic form, then
even our human bodies, our
forms of biology, our DNA
itself can all be
geometrically depicted
without any
measurements whatsoever
in this divine framework
of the universe.
As we think through why
this geometry is so perfect
and how it all relates back
as well to these keys, for
is not geometry simply
the music that we
experience with our eyes?
And isn't music the
geometry that we
experience with our ears?
We have to start looking
differently at geometry.
To expand our
perspective, geometry
has this unique characteristic
that it operates
like a QR code of our
subconscious mind,
upgrading us without us
even being consciously aware
of it, expanding
our perceptions.
Geometry has the
unique aspect that it
expands our perspectives.
That's why I love
to draw it so much.
It's a meditative practice
of consciousness expansion.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When we turn our
thoughts within and start
to recognize the role that we
play in this simulation of mind,
it's not only one
of an actor that
has no choice in the script.
It's not only one
of a director who
might define the actor's role.
But it's actually the
playwright, the producer,
the director, and the actor on
the stage, each and every one
of us realizing why we
chose what we chose.
And I believe this is the
message of Metatron's cube.
We are not trapped in this
cube, this matrix of mind,
of illusion, of two
dimensional form,
into some augmented
reality or virtual reality.
Rather, we are active
participants in it
for our greatest
good and benefit.
The universe is not
happening to us.
It's always happening
for us in this life.
Each of us experiences
the world not
as it is but rather as we are.
As we start to perceive
in higher dimension,
can we therefore start to
perceive different time
dimensions as well?
Is it true that the
only real obstacles
that we face in this world
are the self-imposed obstacles
that we believe in?
That the only real obstacles
are the imaginary ones
that we persistently cling
to and find attachment with.
I think that's what Metatron is
trying to teach us, by giving us
all of this beautiful
information across all
of those different areas of
disciplines and education
that we perceive as separate
and disparate when actually,
in fact, they're not at all.
For what we call applied
mathematics simply becomes
geometry, and applied
geometry then becomes physics.
And applied physics, well,
that's what we call chemistry.
And applied chemistry is
biology, and applied biology,
then, transitions,
interestingly, to psychology.
And applied psychology
becomes sociology,
and applied sociology
is back to philosophy.
And philosophy, in its applied
form, is mathematics again.
It's an entire loop
of learning where
we can perceive the one in
all of its differentiation.
There is no other,
but instead, all
are part of the same
division of the number one.
And the one truth that
connects all of it
is the love that
created all of it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]